Ephesians chapter 1 verse 7 through 10 let's read it in him we have redemption through his blood the forgiveness of sins according to the riches of his grace and
which he made to abound towards us in all wisdom and prudence, having made to known to us the mystery of his will according to his good pleasure which he purposed in himself, that in the dispensation of the fullness of the times he might gather together and one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven and which are on earth in him.
And just a beautiful passage of scripture to start 2026 off for us based on the definition of redemption.
The title of today's message is redemption, putting the broken pieces back together.
And that's what redemption means.
It has many multi-layers as we'll get into it today.
But redemption means a released, a releasing affected by payment of ransom.
And we know this is our Lord Jesus paid ransom.
We'll talk about that redemption, deliverance, liberation, procured by the payment of a ransom.
And then as you piece it all together, especially in the passage before us, redemption is not just fixing but making whole.
and giving a whole new value.
I don't know what 2025 may have been for you and maybe there was some missing pieces.
Maybe there was some broken things in your life that you would love to see made whole again.
Maybe it's just your very state that you know your life is in from a spiritual.
The Lord promises us this redemption.
He promises us not just to fix it, but to make it whole and give it a whole new meaning.
And so beautiful passage.
That's why we will have communion in the end.
It's kind of just a communion message to start our year off.
So would you
Join me as we pray.
Lord, I thank you for the word that you've given us.
I thank you that you left it in its perfect state for us that every dot and every tittle has been preserved through your design divine.
It's a word outside of this time domain.
It's timeless.
And therefore, as it ministers to us today, I pray, Lord, let it reach and meet the hearts of everyone here today.
Let no one leave here not knowing that you've seen them, that you heard their heart, know their needs, know their triumphs and know their low points and defeats in life.
but Lord an encouraging word that you hold us and nothing can change this and the power that comes with this great word redemption and the means that it was procured as you will say through your blood and Lord for the forgiveness of sin that's amazing grace and it was done according to the riches of your grace so we pray this in your name amen would you read with me again verse seven if as we
We go chapter by chapter, verse by verse, and we go word by word.
But verse seven, again, in him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, according to the riches of his grace.
So the redemption can only come, as we've read, a releasing effect by payment of ransom.
And we can read this, and we can kind of
get it, but for the reader today, or the day that this was released, this is the Roman Empire.
And the Lord is speaking some great depth through our brother Paul.
As the people who would read this, Jesus has risen from the dead.
He's ascended into heaven.
It's 30 years plus that this has happened.
The Gospel has left Jerusalem and is now through the book of Acts moving throughout the whole Roman Empire.
And in this Roman Empire are 60 million slaves.
They would know what this word meant.
And when they would hear this word redemption, and then of course by the means through the blood of Jesus Christ, when they would hear this word redemption, they would immediately just be in awe that such a word could be used.
And the Lord does this purposely.
And so we need to go back in time, if you would, to feel the same way as they would.
Wait.
Did you just say the word redemption?
I mean, I hear a lot of words, but are you actually saying the word redemption because they would know the word redemption could only come through a ransom that was paid?
changes all and everything.
Someone could say these various things, but as soon as 60 million people would hear this word redemption, they would all be drawn.
Tell me more of what this is.
And the redemption comes through a ransom as we read.
The ransom comes through a person.
And so in the time of the Roman Empire, but hey, it's only 150 years in this country, same darkness, the same pain of slavery, not to diminish that.
same hurt of slavery.
A person in that time, we'll start there, 2,000 years ago, a person could incur a debt and a debt they couldn't pay.
And the only way that they could settle that debt by legality would be to sell themselves into the slave market.
And so they would have to sell themselves to their person they're indebted to and to pay off their debt.
And you can see the amazing parallel for us.
We're in debt for our sin, but we're not indebted at this point to Jesus indebted to the dark, the evil one who then has control over us.
The cruel slave taskmaster.
But then someone could come and this is Roman law as well.
The person could come and say this owner goes, you know what, I'm going to put him on the slave block and sell him off some more to someone else and take the money for him.
He owes me this, but I'm going to put him on the trader block and someone can buy him and give me 30 pieces of silver, the average price of a slave.
Jesus was sold for 30 pieces of silver when he was betrayed.
Put him on the block and then someone comes and they buy them and then that person becomes the slave to who just bought them.
Again, you can see this amazing correlation of the Gospel that's being spoken to for us.
But it's historical writings that someone could actually come down to the trading block, wherever that would be, the town center or whatever, and people would be put up on that block and then they get looked over and they get poked and prodded and these, you know, are you going to be strong or use you for this and use you for that?
But historically writing, even some people came
doesn't say whether they were Christians or not.
Just, you know, people would come and they would buy, they would come down by the slave and release them and give them their freedom.
I buy you out of this slavery.
You are now free to go do whatever you feel that you would want to do.
You're not a slave to me.
You're not a slave to this person.
Here's your certificate of citizenship and freedom now and you're free to walk and do wherever you may go.
And so once again, we see this beautiful picture of the gospel of Jesus Christ for us.
He buys us off.
But of course we say, Lord, I'll follow you anywhere.
We'll talk more about his grace.
Well, there was slavery as we know as well.
because there's a dark shadowing of slavery and we saw it in our country 150 plus years ago and then and more so is you went and you were captured against your will not your choosing someone captured you put you on this boat brought you to a place you didn't want to be put you on the trades
the cellar block and someone bought you and totally made you into a slave again and boy if you think about that and you put these parallels in of all those type of things and then someone comes and speaks that word ransom again you go who would do such a thing
Who would come and trade places with me so that I might be set free to have this freedom that I have?
And so again, as we read it, and then we just think about these things, that redemption means a releasing effect by payment of ransom, redemption, deliverance, liberation, procured by the payment of a ransom for us by Jesus Christ.
Redemption, it's taking the things that are broken.
It's taking all those things and making them whole, but even more so, giving a new value.
When the slave was bought off the slave block by Jesus Christ, they weren't just put back into the pieces of their life.
Here, your life has been put back in.
You can go back to your family.
Your debt is forgiven.
But now you even have more.
You have a whole new value, because I bought you, as we'll read with my blood and we'll build on those things.
What's amazing for us, and we're going to take communion here shortly, way to start off the new year by purpose,
The verb, in the context of verse seven, this word, as it's used in redemption, the verb is present in tense and durative in action.
What that means, and I don't want to make anyone think that I'm a master in Greek, but there's enough of the dictionaries there and there's enough of that you can search these things through and know these type of things through.
This is how it would read, in whom we are having redemption.
But the power of this is the redemption in the present tense, meaning it's now.
Tomorrow, it will be now.
Ten years from now, it will be now.
It is always present tense.
There's this promise that never changes, that past, present, or into the future, we are redeemed.
And the, the derivative action puts it in the place of, no matter when you look at it,
you are redeemed and I think that's important for us especially as we start a new year because I can give my life to Christ February 1991 what's that 35 plus years ago and I can look back and I can think of man all purchased oh the power and the beauty of it 35 years ago but then you can find yourself coming in and see
seeing things and maybe there's certain things in your life where you kind of go but you know I haven't walked it well or I've blown it in this place or that place and the Lord would come and he'd speak listen the verb tense I want you to understand when I bought you not just that that was settled but every day may you know that the redemption is still
alive and well because the way the sentence forms itself, it goes into the next place through his blood.
And then what he's speaking of, there's always a blood that flows yesterday, today, and forever.
There's a blood that flows for you.
When we take communion today, you hold that communion element.
There's a blood that flows for you and for me.
And we kind of don't really think about blood.
until we see it, until we cut ourselves.
And then when you see the blood, you remember there's blood.
But even still, we can forget what the blood is and what the blood does.
And here's what's, again, in the Greek language that we're looking at in the original form here.
As it says, then in verse seven, in him we have redemption through his blood.
It's the same in the English language.
It's called the definite article.
And what that means is when you read things like that through his blood, that blood definite article, it means one and only.
We are redeemed one way, only one way through his blood.
There is no other way, and that's a praise report.
There's all kinds of definite articles that really unlock
theological meanings through us.
And I won't go into those today as I think about those things.
But when we come here today and we're going to hold this communion element, we're going to celebrate an ending of a year that he kept us.
The Lord kept us even regardless of if you felt the 2025 was broken pieces.
He has kept every last one of us through 2025.
Here we are together in 2026, starting the year off together.
And I promise you this,
You walk with him, he'll keep you.
Whatever it is, whatever comes up May 2026, mark this moment today, you're gonna keep me through 2026, just like you did 2025.
And I know that I'm yours regardless of how things go for me and whatever may be in my life because it is the blood, the blood only.
And Acts 412,
Nor is there salvation in any other, for there is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved.
It's only one name, Jesus Christ, and Jesus Christ in John 14.6, definite articles, and this is, the English kind of leaves a little lacking, but it's beautiful in that when we know it,
Jesus said to them, I am the way, the truth, and the life.
No one comes to the Father except by me.
There's Acts 412, one way, one way only to the Father, forgiveness into the heaven, through Jesus Christ.
But if you read this the way it's written in the original language, Jesus is saying, I am the only way.
I am the only life and I am the only truth.
So whatever you're looking for in life, there is no other way except through Jesus.
And if there's any truths that you're looking for, it's only gonna be found in Jesus Christ.
And we're gonna talk about people and they make their New Year's resolutions before we take communion and just use that to focus our 2026.
But the world's looking for truths.
There's only one truth in the world.
It's found through Jesus Christ.
And there's only one life and it's found through Jesus Christ.
And it's through this blood.
this article, the world record, American record holder on blood donation.
His name is Joe Kierkowski.
And Joe Kierkowski lost his arm at the age of six
When World War II came, he wanted to fight for the American forces.
When he went, obviously he was rejected from being able to go fight in the war.
So Joe Kervosky says, but there is something that I can do for my nation.
Because through every war, there's always gonna be a need for blood.
So in his life, he donated
31 gallons of blood in his lifetime.
The average body here today is holding 10 to 12 pints.
That's like 20 full bodies of blood that this man gave for his life.
And this is what he's the American record holder at that time.
I didn't check to see who, if that's record has been broken, but
this man 31 gallons.
When they interviewed him, here's what his comment was.
Giving blood makes you feel like you're contributing life itself.
There's no more precious gift than life.
Money can't buy the joy of giving blood to help someone who needs it.
And if you take Joe, just a man like the rest of us, and then you take Jesus Christ when he went to that cross.
for the joy Hebrews 12 tells us set before him.
He despised the shame, endured the cross for the joy that was set before him so that his blood, his one and only blood, his only blood, definite article coming to bring this redemption to pay a rampant for us worth it all to give you my blood.
And then again, we take blood and we kind of don't think about it anymore until we need to think about it.
But in Leviticus, before Jesus, Leviticus 17, for the life of the flesh is in the blood.
And I have given it to you upon the altar to make atonement.
That means at one minute.
You can be at one with God through blood for your souls, for it is the blood that makes atonement for the soul.
But that atonement was only once and when you did it.
You needed to go back and you need to go back.
It was only Jesus Christ when once and done for the forgiveness of sin when he said it was done.
Hebrews 9.22, and according to the law, almost all things are purified with blood and without the shedding of blood, there is no remission, forgiveness of sin.
So we got this, the blood that Jesus, the one and only blood, the definite article is the only way, the only truth, the only life through my blood that you can be redeemed and ransom, not just made whole again, but something of new and total value,
because it's based on the blood of Jesus Christ, which is God himself.
And again, back till we talk about blood, when we think there is so much more, there's a sermon in the blood of what blood means to us and we don't think about it because it just flows and we're thankful for it.
It's just something that happens with us.
But right now, the air that you're breathing is being transported through your body, through the blood.
If there's no blood, there's no oxygen, there's no oxygen, there's no life.
You know, right now the blood's moving and the blood is moving and it's moving the waste through our bodies.
It's taking it down into the kidneys, taking it down into the liver and let it do what it's designed to do and it gets a cleansing and a filtering and the blood flows and it flows that precious oxygen, brings this precious life to us.
The blood right now in your body, it's carrying cells and antibodies.
And it's going to go find the things that need healing from a flu, a sickness that's coming into and this blood is flowing and it's taking the antibodies to fight off the invaders into our body and just beautiful continual pictures that we see of Jesus Christ as we look at him.
And the blood regulates the body temperature.
You definitely know that in the summertime when you're really hot, the blood's really pumping, and the blood pumps itself to cool yourself as it moves through the whole body.
Well, the blood as well, it heats the body when we need to.
Just the other day when I was spending some hours out in the woods, it was a little chilly.
Yeah, it was like 30 degrees.
You know, I do the same thing in the winter months.
You know, those little hand warmer things,
You peel off you put in your well they got them there like eight by eight to as well I take that and I place it right on my chest and What I find it is as
works as well there as it would on my feet or my hands because when I take that heat pad and I put it and stick it to my chest where my heart is, that's warming up the blood that's flowing through my heart that then flows through the rest of my body and it's taking this warmth all the way through the rest of my body.
The blood's amazing as we look at these things, that it heals, it cleanses, it regulates, and clots, and all these type of things that we have.
And I know I've shared this story speaking of the blood that heals, but if you've heard it, I hope you enjoy it again.
If you haven't heard it, then you'll get to hear it for the first time.
but it was, oh man, it must have been like 20 years ago.
And me and Renee were visiting our friends, really great friends.
They were living in the area and we went up to visit them and they just got a new puppy.
You know puppies, they're a little clumsy.
They're a little excited and they're excitable and the likes.
And so we were like all sitting on the floor
in the living room, but I was kind of laying down and I was petting the puppy and he was just having, he was in glory, you know, 100% full attention as I'm petting and I'm giving the attention and the puppies just enjoying every last moment.
Well, somebody said something or whatever it may be and it made my head turn, stop petting and look over to the conversation.
Well, you know puppies, you know how they are, almost any dog.
It's like, whoa,
Who gave you the permission to stop?
I didn't say nothing about stopping, so what does the puppies do?
They try to paw your hand, keep on petting.
Well, it's a clumsy puppy and it misses and it raises its hand and I can still see it coming out of the corner of my eye and it comes with those paw claws and it scrapes across my nose.
it wasn't a cut but you know those like surface ones they're like they just don't seem to a cut you can kind of put your finger on and it's going to close on you but this with the cut it there's no closing on it just keeps bleeding and so it hits me and I was like oh wow ouch and then I put my hand and I put my hand down then there's blood on my hand I go oh and then a couple drops drop off I was like oh boy so
Right off the living room was the powder room.
So I jump up, I run to the powder room, and there's the sink, and I just put my head over the sink so the blood flows.
And then it becomes comical.
And there's blood flowing.
Renee immediately goes, oh, I'm going to get the car.
I'm pulling the car around.
I'm going to take you to the hospital.
I was like, it's not that bad.
We don't need to go to the hospital while her best friend is a flight attendant.
So she runs
And she had her training book right there.
And she goes, she pulls out her training book.
What does, what does Southwest say to do when there's blood from the nose?
And she goes, it says, tilt your head back, tilt your head back.
And her husband, he's sitting there, you know, it's comical.
He's like, it's not a nose bleed.
It's a cut.
It's not tilt your head back.
And so you got all this comedy going on and you're hearing all these things as the blood's flowing.
But what did I do?
I just let my head over the sink.
I didn't try to stop the blood.
I just let the blood flow.
I wanted the blood to flow because I know the blood heals.
That blood needed to wash out that dog germ out of my cut.
And I knew as that blood flowed, eventually that blood would do what it was designed to do.
It would bring a healing.
After the cleansing, it would bring a clotting and it would clot that wound and it would bring that healing.
And that is just the beautiful picture of the blood of Jesus Christ.
Cleanses us from our sin, our unrighteousness.
And it brings a clotting and a healing to bring us this redemption.
Doesn't just take the broken pieces and make it whole again.
It brings a whole new value to that which was redeemed and that which was purchased through there.
And this is what the blood of Jesus Christ.
And when we take communion today and we hold that, may we remember the blood, it cleanses, then it heals, then eventually it makes whole again and especially
as we talk definite article the only blood it's the blood of Jesus there is no other blood they can cleanse us from our sin and we'll talk more of how that plays together with the gospel but a couple years ago if you may remember I was walking around on a soft boot my foot was in a cast and my foot was
in a cast, obviously, because it was broken.
And I got hit by a car.
I'm going to digress, but it's a story of God's glory.
And it was about nine o'clock at night or something.
I was making some loops.
Our neighborhoods a circle.
So I was walking the circle on the sidewalk.
And then
I came back around and then I was making, I think I'll do one more loop.
And I step off the sidewalk.
And just as I step off the sidewalk at that moment, here comes this young boy on his phone or whatever, speeding way too fast, not paying attention.
He should be in the next lane instead.
He cuts the lane.
And so now he cuts the lane and it's a moment in time.
And to tell you the story of God's goodness to me is he has this huge truck.
It wasn't just, you know, some small compact truck.
It was full size behemoth of a truck.
And those headlights hit me.
And soon as the headlights hit me, I go, oh boy, I'm gonna get hit by
I think I'm going to get hit by a car.
And it was moving so fast, within a split second, the headlights, I looked down, the headlights are on my whole body, and the grille, the center of the grille is on my shoulder.
And I go from, I think I'm going to get hit by a car to, I am getting hit by a car.
And then I start going down, and then my mind goes to the next thing,
I think I'm going to get run over by this car.
Then your mind's processing what it's like to be underneath a car.
Think about that.
All the gears and transmissions and everything hanging underneath a car.
And what that's going to feel like as it runs over you.
And I think I'm going to get run over.
Then my next thought is as I'm going down, I am getting hit by a car.
And the next thought is I'm going to die.
And I digress the story, my points.
This isn't my main point.
I just want to give God the glory and the praise.
As I started going under the truck, this is true testimony of the Lord.
It was as if someone grabbed the back of my shirt, collar, and yanked me.
Good picture of the rapture seized away.
And I was going under.
I know my body was bruised up here in the morning.
But the next thing I know, I'm on the sidewalk.
And so it was like I was seized from that part of the road.
And I was all the way up on the sidewalk.
And the only thing that was still hanging out there was my feet.
And the truck ran over both of my feet.
And it ran over so much so it broke my one foot.
And I'm laying there and the pain is just excruciating, digressing, just telling a story right now.
But the pain was like excruciating.
And I'm sitting there and I'm like going, I'm hitting the grass.
I'm going, ah!
Oh, oh, this pain.
And the young boy jumps out and he runs up to me and he goes, I'm sorry.
I didn't see you.
And I'm sitting there punching the grass going, I know.
I know you didn't see me.
And so I'm going to call the ambulance.
I go, no, I'm just a block away.
I'll crawl home.
I just want to get home.
And because I know what a broken foot felt like because I had just broken my other foot two months before by overuse.
Some eyes will tell the rest of the story anyway.
So Renee was already sleeping.
I go into the bedroom and I don't know how you break the news other than you just say it.
I walk into the bedroom and this is the time during COVID.
We didn't even know what COVID was.
It was like week one or two of COVID.
And I come walking in and I go, babe, I just got run over by a truck.
And she's sitting there like,
In and out, she's like, wait, what?
She's like, you got to go to the hospital.
I go, this COVID thing is taking the nation.
We don't know what it is.
All the emergency rooms are filled with COVID people.
And she goes, that's right.
That's right.
You don't need to go to the hospital.
You know what a broken foot feels like.
You just stay here.
So she was like, don't go to the hospital with all that COVID stuff going on.
It was just comical.
The whole thing of the matter of it.
But the point back to the blood story that I'm sharing with you is obviously my foot swells.
It takes a couple of weeks for the swelling to go down.
But as soon as the swelling went down, it was, you need to start walking again.
that was the direction that was given like you can't keep your foot up you can't you throw put the crutches aside and now it's time for you to start walking again and it was it was painful
to start walking again, broken foot, putting all that pressure on it.
It's healing by now, of course, but walking and the pain, and I mean, you know, I'd walk just a hundred yards or something, then I'd have to come sit back down because of the pain.
But here's the point.
Why was I to start walking again at that prescribed time was because it needed for that part of my foot and body needed
the blood to start flowing down to it.
And only by walking could the blood flow down there.
With my foot up and there was a time for that and all those type of things are resting, there was a time for that.
It was now time you need to press this so that the blood reaches down there again and does what the blood's designed to do to start healing.
And I say that for 2025.
I say that in the 2026.
I'm sure all of us have suffered pain over our lives.
And I know there's a heartache that can happen.
Maybe 2025 wasn't the year that you were hoping for.
Maybe you're wondering what 2026 is because your heart still aches.
What I wanted to share with you today as we read our passage today is when that blood of Jesus Christ flows,
Even in the pain, it is bringing a healing into your life.
I'm not gonna say everything's gonna be made perfect and everything ends the exact way that you want, but I will promise you this.
His blood through his presence will bring healing into your life.
And it will bring him into your life.
And it will move him in and through your life that no matter what you're going through,
He's with you because the blood is in Him flowing through you.
And remember that when we take this communion today.
And then verse seven goes on to say,
for the forgiveness of sin.
So the ransom paid through Jesus Christ by His blood, the one and only blood and brings the forgiveness of sin that we come and we celebrate and we'll enjoy here as we take communion, as we do this in remembrance.
And here's the definition of forgiveness.
As this one verse plays itself, it's one of the most powerful verses in all the scripture, verse seven.
And all of Ephesians is amazing.
Forgiveness of sin means to release and separate from all consequences.
Forgiveness is loosening something from what binds them.
Forgiveness means to loosen someone from what is binding them.
Forgiveness means to send away.
Of course the Lord promises us through His blood to forgive us of our sin and He puts it as far as the east is from the west we're told in Psalms.
as we see this play it through the redemption the ransom is is a transfer someone pays the ransom someone actually literally takes our place on the slave trader block that's how he bought us he took our place paid the price full price of the sin that was due upon us to be forgiven the the penalty has to transfer right follow me on that
to be forgiven of the law that we broken against the holy God.
Our sin that broke his holy law had to be transferred off of us, sent away from us, and put on to someone else.
And again, here we are, Jesus Christ, coming and taking the transfer of the guilt.
Because somebody has to pay and take the guilt.
And I just want to share with you, again,
I feel it's a great message to start a year off, great message to end a year.
You know what the world does because it doesn't know any better.
It wants you to transfer your guilt, whatever, we're all guilty of something.
It wants you to transfer your guilt onto someone else.
You rarely are going to go into some health professional and they're going to say, well, it's because of your guilt.
You know it, we see it, the world that we live, everybody wants to transfer it to somebody else.
It was, you did that because, as wrong as it is, you did that because how your parents raised you.
You did what you did because how someone else treated you.
And the world always wants to try to tell us to transfer the guilt because it doesn't know anywhere else to send it.
It's only through those
us looking at the Word of God, listening to the Word of God and understanding the Word of God, Jesus Christ says, transfer your guilt to me.
Give it to me.
This is a God, the only God, the only way, the only truth, the only life who says, give it to me.
I want your guilt, your shame, your penalty.
Put it upon me so that I might take it and take it on to the cross for you.
so that I can deal it once and forever, redeem you, pay the ransom, pass present future, cleanse forgiven, send away that you never have to live in it again.
And what I want to share with you ending 25 and coming into 26, don't relive it.
it's cleanse you're forgiven you don't need to keep going back because that's what the world often always wants to do let's go back and talk about this let's go back and talk about what hurt you let's go back and talk about what
is keeping you from moving on today, and it always wants to go back, and Jesus Christ never talks about going back, except to settle it on the cross, and everything from there on was to go forward.
And our brother Paul, who wrote Ephesians, will say in Philippians 3, verse 12, not that I've already attained.
He's not saying we are sinless perfection, but not that I've already attained, or I'm already perfected.
This is the great man who just wrote this that we're reading.
But I press on that I may laid hold of that which Christ Jesus has also laid hold of me.
Brethren, I do not count myself to have apprehended but one thing I do.
forgetting those things which are behind and reaching forward to those things which are ahead.
I press towards the goal for the prize of the upward calling of God in Christ Jesus.
Therefore, let as many as our mature have this mind.
And if in anything you think otherwise, God will reveal even this to you.
Nevertheless, to the degree that we have already attained, let us walk by the same rule.
Let us be of this same mind.
And our brother, he's just saying, don't go back.
Forget the past.
Jesus Christ through the scripture that he would give us today says, just leave it and come away with me.
Matthew 11, 20, come to me all you labor heavy laden and I will give you rest.
Take my yoke upon you and learn from me for I am gentle and lowly in heart and you will find rest for your souls for my yoke is easy and my burden is light.
Don't go back.
Can I say that?
I don't know what 2025 might have been for you.
Don't go back.
the things that are hurtful and the things that are painful, your failures and you just leave it.
Press on now, take what God has promised us, this forgiveness, a sin, this cleansing that's past, present and future, and then he speaks it and the next part of it, in him we have redemption through his blood, his one and only blood, the forgiveness, the sending away of sin, guilt, according to the riches of his grace.
It's my grace that I do this.
And again,
And we can get stuck going back because we miss the grace of the Lord that he gives us.
You know, our Lord is rich.
Verse eight is going to talk about his bounding, lavish wealth.
Our Lord is wealthy enough not just to buy you.
He's wealthy enough to supply to you.
If you went and you bought somebody off the slave block and you took them home to be your slave, the 30 pieces of silver was just the beginning.
right?
Because it was required in Roman law.
You had to feed them.
You had to close them.
You had to house them.
There was a law that came with it and you didn't just buy them.
You had to supply.
And here's what the Lord says.
I didn't just buy you.
I supply for you.
all the riches in Christ Jesus, the wealth of all that I have.
Verse 19 is going to talk about spiritual inheritance when we get there.
We're talking about it literally right now is I have the wealth to supply all of your needs in Christ Jesus today.
This is my lavish in my richness and the greatness.
And there's a power in the grace to set us free.
I read a story and true story.
it was the first Queen Elizabeth.
If you can picture that the Victorian age and those type of things and castles and palaces and those type of things well Queen Victoria and especially if you can imagine the the wardrobe and the and the dress that they wore you know they were big and all those type of things
Well, as in all leadership, not everybody loves the leader.
And there was a woman who despised for whatever her ideology was, Queen Elizabeth, and had determined to kill her.
And so she had set a plan.
She was a servant in the house.
She goes, I'm going to set a plan that I'm going to be able, through various means, sneak into her bedroom, sneak into her closet with all those wardrobes and easily hide in there.
and stay there with my dagger, then when she comes in to go to bed, when she goes to sleep, I'll come out so ever so quietly and I'll slide up to her bed and I will stab her and kill her in her sleep.
But she doesn't plan or think it all the way through that Queen Victoria had her security and her security would never leave her in a room without thoroughly sweeping the room and checking every nook and cranny.
So her security, before she would retire to bed, went into the closet and went through the whole closet to make sure that nobody was hiding in the closet with a knife, a dagger, and sure enough, they find this lady.
So they bring this servant out, bring her before the queen, and the immediate penalty would be death.
And the woman knows this and so she falls at the queen's feet and she says, I beg for grace.
And the queen says to her, what condition will you give me that you will not do something like this again if I extend my grace to you?
And this is what the woman said to her.
Grace that has conditions, grace that is bound by precaution is not grace at all.
And the Queen immediately agreed.
Grace has no condition.
Grace has no requirements upon it.
Grace is freely given to the person based on nothing other than the giver giving of it.
And this is what the Lord is speaking to us, the riches of His grace.
My blood is given to you for your redemption.
The ransom was paid, the one and only blood, and there's no condition upon it.
Present tense, dourative action, past, present, future.
It stays in that same place.
The redemption that I give you is past.
It will be there tomorrow.
10 years from now there will be nothing that changes because it's based on my grace.
Oh church what amazing grace that we have and read and history would go on to say that woman became the most faithful servant to Queen Elizabeth in her whole reign because she knew the grace that had been given to her and I think there's
Those of you here today, we're just like that woman.
You know the grace that's been given to you and you became this faithful servant, not because you have to, not because you're required to.
You know the grace that's been given and you say, Lord, based on this grace, I'll follow you to the end of the earth.
No matter what you give, no matter what else comes, I will be faithful to you because I know this great grace.
for the pardon of my sin.
What a beautiful verse in there.
And let's just read through and then we're going to take communion.
Don't have time to develop it deeply.
But verse eight, nine and 10, as we look at that, this great grace ransomed through the one and only blood, verse eight, which he made to abound towards us in all wisdom and prudence.
So he
revealed this to us.
We would never have understood this.
Having made known to us the mystery of his will according to his good pleasure, which he purposed in himself, a mystery has to be revealed.
And what the Lord is speaking here is, I revealed my heart to you.
through the ransom, through the blood, for the forgiveness of sin, all based on my grace.
That is what I give to you.
I make it, I'm sharing my heart with you.
And it's because of his good pleasure that in the dispensation of the fullness of time, he might gather together in one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven and which are on earth in him.
And the beauty of that, he's telling us, everything's flowing to my throne.
You're in the flow.
Come get into the flow to my throne.
I'm piecing all these things together.
And when you take it from the time of this reading, and you take it from the time of its need, which goes back to the garden, Adam and Eve, the breaking of sin, go in the Cain and Abel, and you go through all the Old Testament.
You come into this New Testament.
The Lord is speaking through all that, saying all the things that were broken.
I am piecing them back together.
I'm making it whole and I'm bringing it and then everything that's flowed from the cross all the way to Glen Bernie 2000 years later eventually ends up before my throne.
We're all in a flow of this amazing flow to come before the throne of grace that we may find help in our time of need.
Before we take communion, it's kind of into the communion celebration right now, this one to
What does 2026 going to look like for you and me?
It's a day.
It's really just a day, but let's be honest, every last one of us, we all feel the same thing.
A new year is a new beginning.
It's just, I think it's something wonderful that the Lord does even has new year in the Jewish calendar.
It's a new year with a new beginning.
And I get to decide today, what am I going to do?
with my 2026.
I don't care what I did with 2025.
If it was great, praise the Lord.
But it's over.
If it was limited or lacking, I'm not looking back.
I have put before me, God has given me a breath with a blood that's flowing through me a new year.
And I go, what am I going to do with it?
I just want to share, you know,
In John 10.10 the thief does not come except to steal, to kill and destroy.
I've come that they may have life and that they may have it more abundantly.
I take that verse and I look at Genesis 3.1.
Now the serpent was more cunning than any beast of the field which the Lord God has made and he said to the woman has God indeed said you shall not eat of every tree of the garden.
The cunningness of the devil as we
end of year and come into the new year.
He wants to subtly come into this cunningness and challenge that part.
I've come that they may have life and that they may have it more abundantly.
He'll challenge it every time.
God's lacking something, God's keeping something.
There's a pain that He hasn't healed.
Why doesn't He heal your pain?
Or there's things that's on your heart.
Psalm 37 verse 4, the light thyself and the Lord will give you the desires of your heart.
I haven't seen it happen in 23, 2025.
Why should I expect it to happen in 2024?
And He's so subtle that He keeps that diversion to look at at the back end and we keep going.
If you've come that I may have life in that more abundant, then where is it?
Why isn't it?
You know why he's doing it?
Because he wants to keep you and I from reading the first half of that verse, which is the ultimate dagger.
The thief comes to steal, kill and destroy.
If I can cast it on that you spend more time, God, why aren't you doing this?
And where are you in that?
Then I'll miss the whole point.
Oh, there's a thief who's out there wants to steal, kill and destroy.
Anything and everything to do with the things of God that are beautiful and abounding.
whether that's your relationships, whether that's your ministry, whether that's your personal relationship just with him.
There's a devil who wants to steal, kill and destroy it.
And there's a God who says, look past that and look to what I offer.
And this is what I close with in the, for we take communion.
For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given, and the government will be upon his shoulder, and his name will be called Wonderful, Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace.
This is what the Lord offers us.
And what I wanna say, everything I just spoke, every New Year's resolution can be found in Jesus Christ.
And everything that I just spoke in Isaiah 9.6 can be found
in the word of God and it will be with his name and there is no other name is wonderful and he's a counselor and he will counsel you and I on anything and everything we need for 2026 and he is a mighty God who has not just the ability to buy it but to supply it and he's an everlasting father meaning he'll outlast
All of our sin, all of our failing, he outlasts it all because he's everlasting and he will bring a peace because he's the prince of peace.
Before we take communion, I'd like the worship team to come back and I'd like to just sing that one song again, White as Snow.
The slides don't make it, we all know the words, that's fine.
But let's sing that song White as Snow and let's just prepare our hearts for worship and give them the glory that's due his name.
And as they're coming back, let me read again.
Ephesians chapter one, verse seven, in him we have redemption.
Through his blood the forgiveness of sins according to the riches of his grace.
which he made to abound towards us in all wisdom and prudence, having made known to us the mystery of his will according to his good pleasure, which he purposed in himself, that in the dispensation of the fullness of time he might gather together in one all things in Christ, emphasis being made, both which are in heaven and which are on the earth, emphasis made in him.
Lord, I thank you that all things are found in
you.
All the resolutions and all the desires they are in you.
You're a God who has the wealth, not just the bias out of slavery, but the supply or every needs through Christ Jesus.
And as we'll take communion here in just this moment, it's because it is done through the precious blood of Jesus Christ.
cleanses us from all unrighteousness past, present, and future and nothing can change that and we can claim that and live in the power of it.
Would you hear our hearts Lord as we lift this worship to you that we say thank you for the blood for making us white as snow?
going to stay standing or seated for communion as the Lord would comfort you.
But on the night in which he was betrayed, took bread, broke it, said, take, eat.
This is my body given for you.
Another word that could be said ransomed for you.
Lord, I thank you that you were willing.
But the God man stepped out of heaven, became man, babe,
So you could relate to us.
You could walk with us and you could show us the way.
And you showed it all the way to a cross that would be brutal.
But you were willing to give.
And Father, I thank you that you gave your only begotten Son, that whoever should believe in Him shall not perish but have everlasting life.
We start 2026 knowing the promises are true and we know that everything is settled and we know that this word is true.
that we've been redeemed and the blood cleanses and covers because you came and you rose again on the third day to prove that sin and death can't hold you.
And you're seated at the right hand of the throne of the Father living to make intercession for us now.
We thank you for coming.
We take the bread and do it in remembrance of you.
And likewise, when supper had ended,
He took the cup.
This is my blood.
The blood of the New Covenant, the New Testament.
What we're reading right now, not based on our works and ability, we could never get off the slave trader block in our own selves.
We had a debt we couldn't pay.
But this New Covenant, God came down and traded places and the guilt could be sent away and we
didn't send it into the sea, we sent it on to the sun, who went and took it to the cross, and through one drop of the precious blood of Jesus Christ, the only blood, the only way, the only truth, we are forgiven.
We are made white as snow.
We thank you for the cup, and we do this in remembrance of you, that you did it for us.
Let's take the cup and do it in remembrance.
Oh, to you be the glory forever and ever,
Lord, I bless you and I thank you.
Who you are, what you've done, what you think of me and what you're doing in me and through me and hear all of us, we say the same thing of amen.
Lord, thank you for buying us, but now you supply us.
And he who began a good work will be faithful to complete it.
Lord, we know the grace just like that servant of what we've been forgiven, the debt that was upon us.
And I pray for 2026, as you would speak to us, we want to be servants of the Lord in whatever that would mean and by whatever you would open to us.
And we come here to think of these things, to prepare ourselves and know that the word of God will give us the wisdom and the counsel to lead us.
And so Lord, thank you, we bless you, we praise you.
Would you hear this last worship song, let it come to your heart, let it be as an incense of we love you.
We bless you and we thank you for what you've done.
In your name, amen.